---
layout: post
title: Effective Pair Programming
---

"Episode 03 - Effective Pair Programming":http://www.hipcast.com/podcast/HDMwN9GQ

<audio controls>
  <source src="http://feeds.effectiveprogramming.com/-/64921411/0/effectiveprogrammingpodcast~Effective-Pair-Programming-Enclosure.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
	  Your browser does not support the HTML5 Audio Player.
</audio>

<em>The notes listed herein are intended as a cursory overview. Please be sure and listen to the episode to hear exactly what was said.</em>

h3. Subscribe

* "iTunes":https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/effective-programming-podcast/id878947397 
* "RSS":http://feeds.effectiveprogramming.com/EffectiveProgrammingPodcast

h3. Hosts

* "twitter.com/TheKnlght":http://www.twitter.com/TheKnlght (Eric Jones)
* "twitter.com/marksands":http://www.twitter.com/marksands (Mark Sands)
* "twitter.com/LutherBaker":http://www.twitter.com/LutherBaker (Luther Baker)
* "twitter.com/effprog":http://www.twitter.com/effprog

h3. Discussion

h4. When

* Hard stories
* Training
* All the time

h4. Questions

* Speed
* Efficiency

h4. Why

* Shared knowledge
* Find middle ground
* Two heads complimenting each other
* Interaction
* Quality of code
* Implicit agreement

h4. Not

* Spikes
* Exploration
* Downtime

h4. Considerations

* Security blanket
* Embarssment
* Keyboard time
* Tension and anxiety
* Social pressure
* Focus, distractions

h4. Techniques

* Full Day Pairing sessions
* 1/2 Day Pairing sessions
* Pairing for a week with the same person
* Pair to introduce work but then go off separately
* Sitting together _pairing_ on different stories concurrently
* Team decides certain stories need pairs while some do not
* 1/2 day on, 1/2 day off

h4. Analogies

* Life
* Buying a House
* Top Gun

h3. Picks

h4. Eric Jones

* "Spotify Server":https://github.com/EffectiveProgramming/iOS-Spotify-Server
* "Podcast Timer":https://github.com/EffectiveProgramming/PodcastTimer-iPad
* "Mistborn":http://brandonsanderson.com/books/mistborn/

h4. Mark Sands

* "Gary Bernhardt":https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/talks/boundaries
* "A Feast For Crows":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Feast_for_Crows

h4. Luther Baker

* PDD: Prototype Driven Design
* "Thinking, Fast and Slow":http://www.amazon.com/Thinking-Fast-Slow-Daniel-Kahneman/dp/0374533555
