---
layout: rss
title: iOS Eventing Frameworks
episode: 02
duration: 1:02:16
length: 29689675
link: http://podcast.effectiveprogramming.com/episodes/2014-05-19-ios-eventing-frameworks.mp3
---

h3. Hosts

* "twitter.com/TheKnlght":http://www.twitter.com/TheKnlght (Eric Jones)
* "twitter.com/marksands":http://www.twitter.com/marksands (Mark Sands)
* Supreet Singh
* "twitter.com/LutherBaker":http://www.twitter.com/LutherBaker (Luther Baker)
* "twitter.com/effprog":http://www.twitter.com/effprog

h3. Discussion

h4. Metrics

* code size
* code complexity
* pitfalls
* potential for failure
* setup
* teardown
* client or service management
* appropriate

h4. Target Action

* slightly verbose
* client must remember to clean themselves up

h4. Blocks

* convenient
* can be used in a funtional programming way
* all the current rage

h4. Delegates

* literal
* straight forward, easy to understand
* construct easily maps to other languages
* typesafe message methods with arguments
* generally 1 to 1 except under special circumstances
* consider NSHashTable to remember a group of delegates

h4. NSNotifications

* sledgehammer
* fire and forget
* 1 to many

h4. ESCObservable

* slightly complicated
* learning curve
* 3rd party depedency
* works with OCMock and Stubble
* builds great foundation for app
* has a few registration _gotchas_

h3. Picks

h4. Mark Sands

* "Use of Relative Code Churn Measures to Predict System Defect Density":http://research.microsoft.com/apps/pubs/default.aspx?id=69126
* "robrix/Navel-Gazing":https://github.com/robrix/Navel-Gazing

h4. Supreet Singh

* Stuart Halloway's Narcissistic Design ("Presentation":https://github.com/stuarthalloway/presentations/wiki/Narcissistic-Design | "Video":http://vimeo.com/77199361)

h4. Eric Jones

* objc.io's "Communication Patterns":http://www.objc.io/issue-7/communication-patterns.html

h4. Luther Baker

* "Are You a Whole Team":http://www.infoq.com/articles/whole-team
* "Play Soccer Not Football":http://mattphilip.files.wordpress.com/2011/03/play_soccer_not_football-agile-and-beyond.pdf
